DBZ-7762 Document connector-specific custom converters (#5471)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/oracle.adoc

If the `selector` property is omitted, the converter will convert all `NUMBER(1)` column types to logical `BOOL` field types in change events.

=== `NUMBER` To Zero Scale

Oracle allows for creating `NUMBER` based columns with negative scale, i.e. `NUMBER(-2)`.
This can cause issues when being converted to Avro or when being handled by other systems that may not support negative scale values.

.Example configuration
[source]
----
converters=number-zero-scale
converters.number-zero-scale.type=io.debezium.connector.oracle.converters.NumberToZeroScaleConverter
converters.number-zero-scale.decimal.mode=precise
----

In this example, the `decimal.mode` property is optional, allowing to configure how decimal values are emitted.
If the `decimal.mode` property is omitted, the converter will default to using `PRECISE` decimal handling mode.

=== `RAW` to String

While Oracle recommends not using certain data types such as `RAW`, legacy systems may continue to make use of this column type.
By default, `RAW` column types are emitted as logical `BYTES`, as the column allows for storing binary or text-based data.

> In some cases, it may be desired for where `RAW` columns store character data as a series of bytes, to emit that column as `STRING` data for easier consumption by consumers.
> The `RawToStringConverter` provides a way to easily target such columns and to have the values emitted as strings rather than bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, `RAW` columns might store character data as a series of bytes.
To facilitate consumption by consumers, you can configure {prodname} to use the `RawToStringConverter`.
The `RawToStringConverter` provides a way to easily target such `RAW` columns and emit values as strings, rather than bytes.
The following example shows how to add the `RawToStringConverter` to the connector configuration:
```

> .Example configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example: `RawToStringConverter` configuration
```

[source]
----
converters=raw-to-string
converters.raw-to-string.type=io.debezium.connector.oracle.converters.RawToStringConverter
converters.raw-to-string.selector=.*.MY_TABLE.DATA
----

> In this example, the `selector` property is optional, which allows specifying a regular expression to designate which tables or columns will be converted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, the `selector` property enables you to define a regular expression that specifies the tables or columns that the converter processes.
```

> If the `selector` property is omitted, the converter will convert all `RAW` column types to logical `STRING` field types in change events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you omit the `selector` property, the converter maps all `RAW` column types to logical `STRING` field types.
```

If the column is nullable, no default value will be set; however, if the column isn't nullable then the default value will be resolved as either `0` (for `DATE` or `TIMESTAMP(n)` data types) or `1970-01-01T00:00:00Z` (for `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` or `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` data types).
The default value type will be numeric except if the column is a `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` or `TIMESTAMP WITH LOCAL TIME ZONE` in which case its emitted as a string.

[[debezium-oracle-connector-converters]]
== Custom converters

> By default, the {prodname} Oracle connector provides several `CustomConverter` implementations specific for Oracle data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the {prodname} Oracle connector provides several `CustomConverter` implementations specific to Oracle data types.
```

These custom converters provide alternative mappings for specific data types based on the connector configuration.
To add a `CustomConverter` to the connector, follow the instructions in the link:../development/converters.adoc[Custom Converters documentation].

=== `NUMBER(1)` to Boolean

Beginning with version 23, Oracle database provides a `BOOLEAN` logical data type.

> In earlier versions, to simulate a `BOOLEAN` type, the database used a `NUMBER(1)` data type, constrained with a value of `0` for false, or a value of `1` for true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier versions, the database simulates a `BOOLEAN` type by using a `NUMBER(1)` data type, constrained with a value of `0` for false, or a value of `1` for true.
```

By default, when {prodname} emits change events for source columns that use the `NUMBER(1)` data type, it converts the data to the `INT8` literal type.

> If the default mapping for NUMBER(1) data types does not meet your needs, you can configure the connector to use the logical `BOOL` type when it emits these columns by configuring the `NumberOneToBooleanConverter`, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the default mapping for `NUMBER(1) `data types does not meet your needs, you can configure the connector to use the logical `BOOL` type when it emits these columns by configuring the `NumberOneToBooleanConverter`, as shown in the following example:
```

.Example: `NumberOneToBooleanConverter` configuration
[source]
----
converters=number-to-boolean
converters.number-to-boolean.type=io.debezium.connector.oracle.converters.NumberOneToBooleanConverter
converters.number-to-boolean.selector=.*.MY_TABLE.DATA
----

In the preceding example, the `selector` property is optional.

> The `selector` property  specifies a regular expression that designate which tables or columns the converter applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `selector` property specifies a regular expression that designate which tables or columns the converter applies to.
```

> The `selector` property specifies a regular expression that designate which tables or columns the converter applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `selector` property specifies a regular expression that designates which tables or columns the converter applies to.
```

If you omit the `selector` property, when {prodname} emits an event, every column with the `NUMBER(1)` data type is converted to a field that uses the logical `BOOL` type.

=== `NUMBER` To Zero Scale

Oracle supports creating `NUMBER` based columns with negative scale, that is, `NUMBER(-2)`.

> Negative scale values cannot be processed all systems, which can cause processing problems in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all systems can process negative scale values, so these values can result in processing problems in your pipeline.
```

For example, because Apache Avro does not support these values, problems can occur if {prodname} converts events to Avro format.

> Downstream consumers that do not support these values can also encounter errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, downstream consumers that do not support these values can also encounter errors.
```
